README.md, before:

# Enhanced Customer Relationship Management System

This project creates a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system for managing enterprise customers. In addtion, it incorporates risk control mechanism to ensure all parties of a transaction are screened for potential risks.

<!-- The system is built using Node.js and Express.js, and uses [database name] as the database. -->

## Conceptual Model

UML Class Diagram
![UML Class Diagram](diagrams/uml.png)

## Logical Model

([link](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/2da1e4e2-e400-4acb-af34-0afa0a122638/edit?view_items=JWWowJgIFUbH&invitationId=inv_f5a92ee0-36d3-4dac-9cdf-52bdf0759fc8) to Lucidchart)
![Logical Model Diagram](diagrams/logical_model.png)

## Schema

Refers to example JSON objects of each collection in the [db/json_examples.js](db/json_examples.js) file. The comments describe some rules for the fields.

## Database

This project uses MongoDB as the database. To use the database, clone this repository, navigate to the queries directory, and run the following commands in the terminal:

1. Initialize a new database with the schema:

   ```bash
   mongorestore dump/
   ```

2. Populate the database:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 database.db < data.sql
   ```

3. To run queries on the database, use the following command. Change the number in the query file name to run different queries:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 database.db < query1.sql
   ```

4. To confirm that the tables were created and conform to the constraints, refer to the [ddl_outputs.pdf](docs/ddl_outputs.pdf) file.

5. To view example outputs of the queries, refer to the [dml_outputs.pdf](docs/dml_outputs.pdf) file.

## Web Application

The web application implements the Employee and Customer tables. It is built using Node.js and Express.js. To run the web application, clone this repository, navigate to the webapp directory, and run the following commands in the terminal:

1. Install the required packages:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the server:

   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

3. Go to http://localhost:3000 in your browser to view the web application.

---

_This project was developed as part of the course CS 5200 Database Management Systems taught by Professor John Alexis Guerra Gomez at Northeastern University (Oakland)._

Commit message:

add instruction to load data

README.md, after:

# Enhanced Customer Relationship Management System

This project creates a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system for managing enterprise customers. In addtion, it incorporates risk control mechanism to ensure all parties of a transaction are screened for potential risks.

<!-- The system is built using Node.js and Express.js, and uses [database name] as the database. -->

## Conceptual Model

UML Class Diagram
![UML Class Diagram](diagrams/uml.png)

## Logical Model

([link](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/2da1e4e2-e400-4acb-af34-0afa0a122638/edit?view_items=JWWowJgIFUbH&invitationId=inv_f5a92ee0-36d3-4dac-9cdf-52bdf0759fc8) to Lucidchart)
![Logical Model Diagram](diagrams/logical_model.png)

## Schema

Refers to example JSON objects of each collection in the [db/json_examples.js](db/json_examples.js) file. The comments describe some rules for the fields.

## Database Setup

This project uses MongoDB as the database. To use the database, install the required tools, clone this repository and run the following commands in the terminal:

1. Tools required:

   - [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community) for the database server. By default, MongoDB runs on localhost:27017. Below commands assume this configuration.
   - [MongoDB Database Tools](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/database-tools) for importing and exporting data.
   - [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass) for viewing the data.

1. There are two ways to regenerate the sample database.

   1. Using mongorestore to load data from dump files.

      ```bash
      mongorestore dump/
      ```

   2. Using mongoimport to load data from each of the JSON files. Change the file name to load different collections (Customer, Employee, Lead, Opportunity, Screening Record).

      ```bash
      mongoimport -d crm --jsonArray --file db/sample_data/[filename].json --jsonArray
      ```

1. Populate the database:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 database.db < data.sql
   ```

1. To run queries on the database, use the following command. Change the number in the query file name to run different queries:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 database.db < query1.sql
   ```

1. To confirm that the tables were created and conform to the constraints, refer to the [ddl_outputs.pdf](docs/ddl_outputs.pdf) file.

1. To view example outputs of the queries, refer to the [dml_outputs.pdf](docs/dml_outputs.pdf) file.

## Web Application

The web application implements the Employee and Customer tables. It is built using Node.js and Express.js. To run the web application, clone this repository, navigate to the webapp directory, and run the following commands in the terminal:

1. Install the required packages:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the server:

   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

3. Go to http://localhost:3000 in your browser to view the web application.

---

_This project was developed as part of the course CS 5200 Database Management Systems taught by Professor John Alexis Guerra Gomez at Northeastern University (Oakland)._
